---
layout: default
hidetime: true
title: Framework principles
permalink: /principles/
description: This article was developed with the purpose of proposing certain principles that must drive an enterprise architecture initiative.
category: Stratergy
references:
   - { title: 'Principles of enterprise', url: 'https://www.ibm.com/developerworks/rational/library/enterprise-architecture-financial-sector/index.html' }
---

{{ page.description }} The main motivation that led to the development of this list is the difficulty of implementing enterprise architecture in an environment as hostile as the financial market. There is great pressure on the technology segment, which is usually not perceived as strategic. An even greater challenge is showing that IT decisions can add value and differentials to businesses.

<article role="article" class="post-content attention-box" >
  <div id="grid" class="row flex-grid">
    {% include principle-box.html level="01" title="Business" color="lightblue" %}
    {% include principle-box.html level="02" title="Talent" color="lightblue" %}
    {% include principle-box.html level="03" title="Demand" color="lightblue" %}
    {% include principle-box.html level="04" title="Platform" color="green" %}
    {% include principle-box.html level="05" title="Security" color="green" %}
    {% include principle-box.html level="06" title="Operations" color="green" %}
  </div>  
</article>

This list was organized and developed based on the selection and adjustment of the most relevant principles established throughout my experience and linked to the 6 elements of the [IT Framework](/framework). Most of these principles apply to any type of industry after only a few minor adjustments. Usually, there are around 20 enterprise architecture principles that must be followed. A very short list contains more generic and ethereal principles, hindering practical applications. On the other hand, an excessively extensive list is too specific and generates inconsistencies and conflicts between principles and changes resulting from technological, environmental, and contextual evolution.


# Definitions

Principles are high-level definitions of fundamental values that guide the IT decision-making process, serving as a base for the IT architecture, development policies, and standards.
The principles of architecture define general rules and guidelines to use and implement all information technology (IT) resources and assets throughout a company. They must reflect a level of consensus between several corporate components and areas, constituting the basis for future IT decisions.
Each architecture principle must focus mainly on business goals and key architecture applications.

## Format of each principle
Each principle must be formally stated. Some suggestions regarding the format in which principles must be stated are available in related literature. This article follows the format suggested by The Open Group Architecture Framework (TOGAF), in which each principle is presented according to the following format:
Name
The name must represent the essence of the rule and be easy to remember. Specific technology platforms must not be mentioned in a principle's name or description.
 
### Description
The description must succinctly and directly convey the fundamental rule. Most information management principle descriptions are similar among different companies.
 
### Rationale
This must highlight business benefits generated by adhering to the principle, using business terminology. It must emphasize the similarity between information and technology principles and those that regulate business operations. The rationale must also describe its relationship to other principles and intentions compared to a balanced interpretation. It should describe situations in which a certain principle would outweigh another in the decision-making process.
 
### Implications
This item must highlight requirements, both for businesses and IT, to comply with the principle regarding resources, costs, and activities or tasks. The impacts in businesses and consequences of adopting a principle must be detailed. Readers must be able to easily answer the following question: "How does this affect me?" It is important not to simplify, trivialize, or question the merit of such impacts. Some implications are exclusively identified as potential impacts, with a speculative characteristic as opposed to being fully analyzed.
 
